# ScrumLanguage
This project implements a parser in Haskell for a domain specific language (DSL) "ScrumLanguage",
which is then translated into Python.
The parser is designed to read and parse code written in "scrumLanguage", and generate Python.

## Project Description
This project consists of several modules, each one in charge of a specific part of the parsing and translation process:

- AST.hs: Defines the data structure for the abstract syntactic tree (AST) that represents the various elements of the language.
- Parser.hs: Implements the parser using Parsec, a parsing library in - Haskell.
- CodeGenerator.hs: Converts the AST generated by the parser into Python code.
- Main.hs: Entry point of the program.

## Grammar
The grammar of the language is defined in the form of BNF (Backus-Naur Form) and encompasses various elements:
- Literals
- Variables
- Binary expressions
- Lists
- Loops
- Conditionals
- Roles
- User stories

[grammar.ebnf](scrumLanguage/resources/grammar.ebnf)

## Parser Functionality
The parser reads the code written in the defined language and generates an abstract syntax tree (AST) which is then used to generate the Python code. The main functions of the parser are:

- Parsing of Literals, supports: 
    - Integers
    - Floats
    - Booleans
    - Strings.
- Assignments: Allows assigning values to variables.
- Binary Expressions: Supports basic arithmetic operations.
- Conditional: Supports conditional if structures.
- Loops: Implements for loop iterating over lists.
- Lists: Supports lists with elements of the same type.
- Roles and User Stories: Allows defining specific roles and user stories following the format:
    - User Story ID 
    - Title
    - User Story Type 
    - Assigned_to  
    - Description
    - Estimation
    - Acceptance

## Program Flow
1. Grammar Definition ([BNF](scrumLanguage/resources/grammar.ebnf))
2. Abstract Syntax Tree Creation ([AST](scrumLanguage/src/AST.hs))
3. Parser Implementation ([Parser.hs](scrumLanguage/src/Parsers/Parser.hs))
4. Code Generation ([CodeGenerator.hs](scrumLanguage/src/CodeGenerator.hs))

## Installation and Use
To install and run the parser, follow the steps below:

1. Clone the repository:

```
    git clone https://github.com/0santisimo0/scrum_interpreter.git
    cd scrum_interpreter/scrumLanguage/
```
2. Install the dependencies:
```
    stack build
```

3. Run the main program:
```
stack run
```

You have to indicate in the Lib.hs file which file you want to parse.

If the parse is successful, a test.py file will be generated in src/PythonFiles